# Data Visualization project
## Where should you book your next Airbnb
--------------------------------------------------------
## Introduction
### The online travel and hospitality space has a large availability of data. This data is flowing in real-time to consumers along with an immediate feedback loop. There is also increased competition (e.g. from online travel agencies) amongst companies which has resulted in more choices for consumers. In this context, consumers are faced with the need to rapidly make informed decisions. As everyday consumers, we’ve encountered this multiple times when we try to find where to stay, or how to travel for a particular trip. Within this space, Airbnb is a disruptive and growing force. Statistics show that the number of people using Airbnb in the United States is currently 38 million and is forecasted to reach 43.3 million by 2020. At the same time, there is an opportunity to better enable Airbnb consumer to make decisions about where to stay. For these reasons, and the practical availability of abundant data in the public domain, we chose to use Airbnb listing information as our primary data set. To help fuel our creative process, we explored a variety of blog posts, relevant visualizations, and more. For instance, we came across TripHappy’s use of clustering to help identify neighborhoods to stay in during a trip. In conducting research on the accommodation features that consumers care about when choosing an Airbnb listing, we found helpful articles such as from the Boston Hospitality Review. We also drew inspiration from some visualizations on Tableau public which showcased Airbnb data. Of course, our design choices were also strongly influenced by data visualization principles we covered across class modules.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
## Major learnings
### The goal was to come up with an approach which would help users choose their best locality / neighborhood and then deep dive into the listings, while filtering on the most important attributes available to them. The output was a Tableau dashboard which is attached.
